Intl.NumberFormat - flyby fixes (#18258)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/intl/numberformat/format/index.md

### Parameters

- `number`
  - : A {{jsxref("Number")}}, {{jsxref("BigInt")}}, or string, to format.

## Description

The `format()` method formats a number into a string according to the locale and formatting options of this {{jsxref("Intl.NumberFormat")}} object.

{{jsxref("Number")}} values in JavaScript suffer from loss of precision if they are too big or too small, making the text representation inaccurate.
If you are formatting an integer larger than {{jsxref("Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER")}}, prefer using a {{jsxref("BigInt")}} instead.

```js
new Intl.NumberFormat('en-US').format(1234567891234567891) // 1,234,567,891,234,568,000
new Intl.NumberFormat('en-US').format(1234567891234567891n) // 1,234,567,891,234,567,891

> ```

Reviewer: Now that string formatting is in, maybe we can remove or de-emphasize this? Using BigInts just to preserve precision is really subpar compared to strings since decimals are tricky.

Author: @Josh-Cena I'm not sure. The spec implies to me that they want to treat the strings as "pass through" formatting, and avoid having them used for any kind of calculation. To me that implies that if you are doing anything mathematical you probably still want to work with BigInts for now and the Decimal type when/if it makes it properly into the language.

Appreciate your thoughts on this.

Reviewer: Ah—I was pointing to the case where you are using the literal, not doing any calculations. The example here is a literal. And yes, if you want to do _any_ calculations you'll still need BigInts.

### Parameters

- `number`
  - : A {{jsxref("Number")}}, {{jsxref("BigInt")}}, or string, to format.

> Strings are parsed as _**string** numeric literals_ (as defined by the ECMA-262 "StringNumericLiteral" grammar).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Strings are parsed as _**string** numeric literals_ (as defined by the ECMA-262 "[StringNumericLiteral](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#prod-StringNumericLiteral)" grammar).
```

Since we are using spec terms anyway

Author: I hate it, but you're right.

> Strings are parsed as _**string** numeric literals_ (as defined by the ECMA-262 "StringNumericLiteral" grammar).

Author: @Josh-Cena I agree "parameters" is the right place for information on the string format. Given the differences with string conversion of a Number I've tried to capture
1. That you can use it for Exponent formats.
2. All those caveats you pointed to in the spec. 

I would prefer to be completely canonical  (e.g. we state support for "#.#E#" but that doesn't necessarily mean we support #e# say (exponentials) and many other mathematical symbols). This is a good start though because at least we have some of the differences.

I kept mention of ECMA-262 because this is not canonical - so someone might want to go to the spec.

Reviewer: Yeah, I think this is good enough—not many would need to dig into the corners of what it accepts.

> Strings are parsed as _**string** numeric literals_, according to the ECMA-262 "StringNumericLiteral" grammar.
> This allows, among other things, the general syntax for decimal strings `#.#E#`, and non-base-10 numbers like hexadecimal and binary.

Author: ```suggestion
Strings are parsed as _**string** numeric literals_ (as defined by the ECMA-262 "StringNumericLiteral" grammar).
These support, among other things, the general syntax for decimal strings `#.#E#`, and non-base-10 numbers like hexadecimal and binary.
```

String values passed to the `format()` function:

- may have leading and/or trailing white space and/or line terminators.
- may have any number of leading 0 digits.
- may include a "+" or "-" character to indicate its sign.
- may be empty or whitespace-only.

>   In this case the value is converted to +0.

Author: @Josh-Cena The spec actually says the value is a "0𝔽" - what's that - just "positive 0" for the purposes of formatting? Or to put it another way, is +0 OK here?

Reviewer: Yep, +0 is OK. "𝔽" denotes a "number value" (i.e. IEEE 754), so it has the distinction between +0 and -0.

- may include `Infinity` or `-Infinity`.
- cannot be suffixed with `n` (the suffix used to indicate that a numeric value is a `BigInt`)

> - cannot include a numeric literal separator, such as an underscore ("_").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- cannot include a numeric literal separator (`_`).
```

This is the only one.

> **Note:** Older versions of the specification parsed strings as a {{jsxref("Number")}}.
> Check the compatibility table for your browser.

## Description

The `format()` method formats a number into a string according to the locale and formatting options of this {{jsxref("Intl.NumberFormat")}} object.

> {{jsxref("Number")}} values in JavaScript suffer from loss of precision if they are too big or too small, making the text representation inaccurate.

Author: @Josh-Cena UPdated this bit. What I've tried to do is make it clear that BigInt is needed for calculations - the fact that it does not lose precision is an "aside". Then go on to recommend strings for pass-through formatting.

Happy to take alternatives as a suggestion.

Reviewer: This looks good 👍

If you are performing calculations with integers larger than {{jsxref("Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER")}} you should use a {{jsxref("BigInt")}} instead, which will format correctly:

```js
new Intl.NumberFormat('en-US').format(1234567891234567891) // 1,234,567,891,234,568,000
new Intl.NumberFormat('en-US').format(1234567891234567891n) // 1,234,567,891,234,567,891
```

> You can also pass through very large strings to be formatted as an arbitrary-precision decimal string (if you're _performing calculations on the data you will still need to work with `BigInt`):

Author: ```suggestion
You can also pass through very large strings to be formatted as an arbitrary-precision decimal string (if you're performing calculations on the data you will still need to work with `BigInt`):
```

> You can also pass through very large strings to be formatted as an arbitrary-precision decimal string (if you're _performing calculations) on the data you will still need to work with `BigInt`):

Author: ```suggestion
You can also pass through very large strings to be formatted as an arbitrary-precision decimal string (if you're _performing calculations on the data you will still need to work with `BigInt`):
```

```js
new Intl.NumberFormat('en-US').format("1234567891234567891") // 1,234,567,891,234,567,891
```

## Examples

### Using format

Use the `format` getter function for formatting a single currency value.

> The code below shows how to format the roubles currency for a Russian locale:

Reviewer: (Can't comment on an unchanged line)

In the example below, the result is anglicized for some reason. The actual output should be `654 321,99 ₽`

Author: Thanks. Fixed.

// → "123.456,789; 987.654,321; 456.789,123"
```

### Using format with a string

Using a string we can specify very numbers that are larger than {{jsxref("Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER")}} without losing precision.

```js
let numberFormat = new Intl.NumberFormat("en-US");

// Here the value is converted to a Number
console.log(numberFormat.format(987654321987654321))
// → 987,654,321,987,654,300

console.log(numberFormat.format("987654321987654321"));
// → 987,654,321,987,654,321
```

> The specific string formatting version supported is the ECMA-262 "StringNumericLiteral" grammar, which also allows non-base-10 numbers like hexadecimal and binary.

Reviewer: I think this should be in the "parameters" section. Also, in the [`BigInt` constructor](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt/BigInt) page I went with the description "Strings are parsed as if they are source text for integer literals". We can do something similar here.

// → "123.456,789; 987.654,321; 456.789,123"
```

### Using format with a string

Using a string we can specify very numbers that are larger than {{jsxref("Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER")}} without losing precision.

```js

> let numberFormat = new Intl.NumberFormat("en-US");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const numberFormat = new Intl.NumberFormat("en-US");
```

// Here the value is converted to a Number
console.log(numberFormat.format(987654321987654321))
// → 987,654,321,987,654,300

// Here we use a string and don't lose precision
console.log(numberFormat.format("987654321987654321"));
// → 987,654,321,987,654,321
```

We can also use the general "E" exponent syntax for decimal strings: `#.#E#`.
The code below creates a {{jsxref("BigInt")}},  coerces it to a string with the suffix `E-6`, and then formats it.

```js

> numberFormat = new Intl.NumberFormat("en-US");

Author: ```suggestion
let numberFormat = new Intl.NumberFormat("en-US");
```

> let numberFormat = new Intl.NumberFormat("en-US");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const numberFormat = new Intl.NumberFormat("en-US");
```

const bigNum = 1000000000000000110000n;
console.log(numberFormat.format(bigNum));
// → "1,000,000,000,000,000,110,000"

// Format as a string using the `E` syntax:
console.log(numberFormat.format(bigNum + "E-6"));
// → "1,000,000,000,000,000.11"

> ```

Reviewer: Two separate code blocks should be seen as standalone, so we can use `const numberFormat = ...` in both.

Author: The problem is that in some cases you get people copy pasting this stuff into a browser window one after the other. I'll change though, because the approach is inconsistently applied, and while common in Learn is not seen often/ever in Reference.

Reviewer: Another day calling for redeclarations in Firefox console 😄
